To kick up our project,
the very first thing we're going to want to do is open up
a new terminal session on the bottom right panel of workspaces like New Terminal.
Within this terminal, we're going to want to navigate to our project working directory.
Don't worry, we created this for you.
If we go ahead and issue the command list structure, which is LS,
press enter, you'll notice that we have a project working directory called Project_2.
We can utilize the command change directory
to navigate to that project working directory.
To do this, we just simply type in cd for change directory,
and then we type in the name of our directory.
Fantastic. At this point,
you're going to want to go ahead and initialize your project
by issuing the command for the node package manager initialization,
npm init, that stands for node package manager initialization.
Once we have that configured,
go ahead and press enter to kick it off.
Now, it's going to prompt you for a few questions specific to your project.
Feel free to accept the defaults because at anytime,
you can go ahead and edit the contents of this file.
So, we're going to go ahead and accept the defaults.
All right. You'll notice that it produce an output in JSON format.
We kind of figured so considering the name of this file is package.json.
We can see that right here.
Okay. So, now that we have our package.json configured,
this allows us to store project dependencies within the
package.json for future installation of this project on other machines.
Super useful. Okay. Now, to kick things off,
to create our own private blockchain,
we're going to want to create our blockchain data model,
and that means that we need to look at what a block looks like.
So, let's go ahead and take a look at an existing block on the testnet.
On the left-hand panel of your screen,
you'll notice we have Project_2 in your file explorer.
Let's double-click it to open the contents.
We have our package.json,
and then we have testnet_block_1325438.
Let's go ahead and select testnet_block so we can reverse
engineer the data model and simplify it for our means.
Let's go ahead and select everything inside
this file so we can go ahead and create our own data model.
To do that, I'm going to go ahead and select
the entire contents of this file and then copy it.
What I want to do is create a new file.
I tend to use touch.
So, down in the terminal window,
I'm going to issue the command touch and I'm just going to call this notes.txt.
Okay. Perfect. You'll notice in your file navigation window
on the left panel of your screen, we have notes.txt.
We'll open that file by double-clicking on it and it's empty.
So, what we're going to do is now paste the contents from our clipboard to this file.
The screen bigger. Okay. So, now,
let's go ahead and remove the data that we don't need for our data model.
Remember, we are building a simplified private blockchain,
meaning there is no need for a consensus algorithm at this time.
Let's go ahead and remove everything other than the hash,
the body of the block,
the block height, the time that the block was entered into the chain,
and of course, reference to the previousblock on the blockchain.
So, what we're going to do is remove everything that we don't need.
So, we don't need anything that's referencing to the consensus algorithm,
we're just going to delete those.
The body of our block,
we don't need any data within it because all we care about is constructing
your own private chain block data model.
So, right here, we're just going to remove all this data with
inside the transaction body also known as a block body.
Matter of fact, let's just rename tx with body.
All right, perfect.
We're going to remove merkleroot version.
No need for weight, size, or confirmation,
and let's remove the data from the hash.
Let's reset the block height to zero;
the time, zero; and previousblockhash, nothing. All right.
That pretty much concludes what we're going to need to start
constructing our own private blockchain.
Now that we defined our data model,
let's go ahead and add that to our notes.
Block and data model.
Perfect. Well, that concludes our block data model.
Next up, let's go ahead and create
our own block constructor to support building out our private blockchain.